

Tape #7: Formation of Self
Reptilian (Uroboric) <200KBC
	Infant = Purely rooted in physical.	
Mammilian (Typhonic) 200KBC
Sensory Stimuli
Emotions tied to Sensory Stimuli = 12KBC
Rational Consciousness = 3KBC
Higher States of Consciousness accessable for all = 1KBC
	Great Religions Started

Choose Between:

	Physical		Growth
(Needed for Early Survival)
	Compete		Creativity
	Anxiety		Relate to others and Belong
	Power			Harmony
	Pleasures
	Self Centerdness
???	
Developing Self Ages 0-11:
Blue print for life from  negative experiences and people cause defense patterns, inadequecy, and stress problems.
Live in Security center of consciousness: Protection, Justification, Glorification.
	0-1 year old = False Self, insecurity demand, self exhaultation
	1-3 year old = Doubts human life: Beauty, goodness, fears, need for 				pleasure, affection, sensation, magical.
	4-7 year old = socialization and values, play, explore, school oppressive, put 			down, appeal to likes/dislikes, power over and control.
	7-11 year old = reason and abstract, ethics

Age 12 - up 
	Shift from particular to general, right half brain to left half brain.
Tape #8: Prerational Energy Centers
We donÕt evolve properly so we get stuck.
Harmony = State of Soul
Paradise = Intimacy with God.
Coping mechanisms develop in child, because emotions are not processed.
Fixation due to early deprivation.
Ken Keyes recommended here.
Security Center = Want more and better out of life.
	Emotions combine with imagination.
	Anger/imagination = emotional termoil.
	Mythic membership = irresponsibility (war)
	Group mentality = Conform and not to challenge 
		(Israel wanted a king)
	Reason is used by energy centers through rationalization
	Psarchs = Flesh, physical, substitute for God.

We try to avoid unpleasentness.
	Security = survival
	Affection = extreme behavior
	Power = Control
Energy diverted to those centers of false self.

Mythic membership: socialization, security, power, control, esteme.
Original Sin: Is what happens to us early.
Racism: Identify part with whole.
Disregard parental and group values for growth.

DonÕt get discouraged when our dark side comes up. God reveling secret .
Relationships will change.
Person that causes the most trouble is greatest gift for showing darkside.
To learn to be content in personal misery is to give up programs for happiness.
The deeper you experience the need and mercy fo God, the more progress.
Mythical membership habits develop in absence of family.
God always challenges us.
International relations has become just another sandbox.
Ideology = mythical membership
Loyalty to family and country should not be absolute, but a personal responsibility.
Monarchy = ?
Democracy = mental egoic.
Fear of God = Invited to mystery and trust and be fascinated.

Hastening the unloading of unconscious programs:
	Two daily centering prayers.
	Notice the programs in daily life as upsetting emotion.
	Choose active prayer sentence and repeat often when upset arises.
		Make it a daily chant whenever free time arises.
		After 6 months it erases unconscious tapes.
		Dumps the commentary
		Gives mental zone of no emotions
		Asks if you want rage , programs computer in mind.
		
Tape #10: Dismanteling the emotional programs.
Emotions are great friends to show us what our true values are.
Emotions come out of unconscious value systems.
Energy centers are stuck in unconsciousness
Emotions faithfully record their presense.
Emotional upset is a sign that we are attached to one of these centers.
Asceticism  = spiritual discipline
	Purpose is to change an addiction to a preference.
Energy centers are blocks to love, grace, growth, freedom.
Love = unconditional acceptance. Mathew 5:6
Lent = Desert = Dismantling emotional programs
	Compares to our experience.
WISDOM = Beatitudes
	Oh how happy you would be:
	Morner = letting go and acceptance.
	Poor in Spirit = Free of security
	Meek = No power and free.
	Other beatitudes describe higher states of consciousness
Follow  these or tragedies will be used to direct.
All violence is an attack on God.
We need to rock the boat in groups.
Ages 4-7 parental values stuck on child.
Get rid of Ego Programs and become ?
Guilt of more than 30 seconds is neurosis.
God becomes projection of interior ?
Things are tied to emotion.
Centering prayer is trusting God.
Children need stories not treats.


Act of love, transforms worlds.
Power and prestige center:
	Status, home, degrees.
	Question motivation always!!!
	Check your value system.
	Minimize worldliness for self agrandizement.

Tape #11: The False Self In Action

Energy centers are present:
	Security = money, power, insurance

Basically values change.
Decision for new values doesnt touch subconscious.
The purpose of prayer is to change us.
Authority and obedience retreats to childhood, but doesnt rebuild.
In ascetic life emotions and repressed feelings come out.


Have freedom to respond rationally to others actions without reacting emotionally from energy centers.

Ken Keyes book shows how to upscale addictions to preferences.
1) Accept unconconditionally
2) Mind-Freedom: Grief, Anger, apathy all have commentaries from imagination.
	a) Report emotion. Name It.
	b) Pin-point event trigger.
	c) Determine program.
	d) Am I willing to give up my desire for approval or control over ...
	e) YES, I give up my demand for ...

Letting go of value system.
Center develop and ??? by repition.



When we are upset free ourselves by exercise.
Monkey-Coconut-Hunter story
Energy centers are like weeds. 
DonÕt feed them and they will whither, just childhood habits.
Why should I let others behavior upset me.
Love triumphs overall.
Patient letting go of frustrating energy centered value systems in unconscious.
Karen Hornei Book: The Neurosis in Human Growth. Frustration based on temperment.
False self is system for personal glory.
We can not live in the present with an addiction program.
Value system is problem not emotions.
Responding  to life is growth.
Emotions are riches.
