Since you like to read so much I enclosed excerpts from two papers I wrote in college on Comparitive Religion and my philosophy of education. These days I'm more of a Buddhist Yogi.

Read the whole Bible cover to cover! Went  through the Old Testament a second time after I learned about the  Jewish Kabbalah, Torah, and Talmud and did alot  of research  on  where each book came from. Very interesting and surprising. I  actually like the old testament now and it even seems to  make  sense  for me. The Kabbalah filled in many of my cosmology questions. I also did a parallel study of Hinduism and the similarities between the major items seem too extraordinary to discount. In fact many Jews believe that when Abraham sent his  children  to  the  East  with Spiritual  gifts,  this  was  how  hinduism  got  started.   Also interesting was that Satin is mentioned only twice in the OT  and in both cases he is  conversing  with  God.  Many  Jews  seem  to believe that Satin is also part of God's plan because without him man would have no free will. Interesting concept. In the OT there is not the struggle between Good/Evil as in the NT,  but between obedience to law and non-obedience (clean/unclean). I also  think that much of the OT was written to  control  the  masses  by  the Levite priests. The most important thing I got  out  of  the  old testament was that we have no business judging what is  good  and evil in others or in situations, but  should  simply  follow  the rules of righteousness which God provides to each  human  in  his heart. This complicated world that modern society  has  generated makes so much noise that God's signal seems to get  lost  in  the noise and worldly activity. Meditation was then (I  also  believe for today), is the means needed to quiet down our  minds  so  God can work his magic giving direction. In everyday events  God  can direct us to do his will, whether others approve  or  disapprove. Listening and being open and balanced is what is  important,  not talking to him. Our perception of reality  is  distorted  by  our personalities and expectations, God knows reality in our universe and beyond so what is the point of telling  him  anything.  So  I don't think people should tell him through prayer what should  be done, or try to do "good" things as we perceive them.  God  works through us and the earth and the best thing we can do is be  open to doing his will. We aren't running things anyway, we  are  only here for the ride. Our purpose seems to be to perform God's  will in the material realm.

The  New  Testament  is  written  with extreme emotion and seems to be an emotional appeal for belief. I found the three  synoptic  gospels  to  be  believable  and  they supported each other. Luke was definitely  the  historian  as  he recorded the most detail. John was an enigma, being  historically different and saying things the others  never  mentioned.  It is written as an emotion wrenching masterpiece.  Jesus  says  things very differently in John: The parables are  not  even  mentioned, only in John does Jesus declare himself as the only way  to  God, and only in John does Jesus actually say he is God. In the  other Gospels Jesus seems to  evade  the  question.  According  to  the synoptic gospels Jesus answers very few questions but  only  asks more questions. He seems to be trying to  make  people  think  by turning inward to there  hearts  instead  of  relying  on  canned responses from the Jewish religion.  He  actually  denounces  the religious beliefs of the day instead teaching people to  look  to there hearts for guidance on all  things.  After  the  gospels  I found Acts quite interesting, but was actually  appalled  by  the letters of Paul and to a lesser degree Peter. Paul seems  like  a lunatic to me and has a very abrasive personality. No wonder  the Jews of the day hated him because all he did was attack  them.  I found Hebrews and Revelation to be the most interesting parts  of the latter NT. I then did alot of research on  the  emergence  of the the christian church. I wrote a paper for my education class, an excerpt of which follows.

3.2: EMERGENCE OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH

Christianity was considered by most Romans to be  a  Jewish  sect and had relatively slow growth  for  the  first  three  centuries [4,_p._85]. The first organized  persecutions  of  Christians  by Romans occurred around AD 111 and continued  for  two  centuries. The primary reason  for  the  persecutions  was  that  Christians refused to worship theemperor which was the  patriotic  duty  of all Roman citizens. Roman officialsrecognized how well organized the Christian churches were, and considered them to  be  involved with seditious activities. Two Roman emperors decreed Empire wide persecution   campaigns   in   AD 250 and 303.   Although    each persecution left Christian numbers  greatly  diminished,  neither was totally successful and only proved  that  Christianity  could not be crushed. Four rival Roman  emperors  tried  to  seize  the abdicated throne in the year AD_312. Constantine  the  Great  was one of these four. Constantine marched into Italy from the  north and sought the support of  Christians.  Although  he  was  not  a Christian, he was impressed with the compact organization of  the Church and their tenacity in the face of persecution.  Better  to have Christians as allies instead of enemies. After  his  victory in AD_313, Constantine became the sole emperor  and  forbade  the persecution of Christians with the Edict of Milan. He did  become baptized into the Christian faith a few days before his death  in 337. [4,_pp._84-88] [6,_pp._156-157].

Christianity grew rapidly in the Roman  Empire  after  313.  Many Christians thought that the  teachings  were  being  polluted  by pagan rituals and superstitions. In  the  east,  the  Greek  mind trained in philosophy and metaphysical thought began to churn out doctrines. Those doctrines accepted by  the  Church  were  called orthodox beliefs and  those  not  accepted  were  called  heresy. Bitter  struggles  occurred  between   churches   with   opposing doctrines. A priest named Arius of  Alexandria  denied  both  the absolute divinity and the complete humanity of Christ in 318. His arguments were logical in a lateral-minded way, but it would have robbed Christianity of essential meaning. [4,_pp._88-89].

Constantine wanted the church united for political purposes,  and called bishops to the first ecumenical council at Nicaea in  325. He did not care what the doctrine was or  which  side  prevailed, but he did want the situation resolved. The majority  of  bishops opposed Arius and  Arianism  was  banished  from  the  Empire  by imperial decree. The Nicene Creed asserted both the full divinity and humanity of Christ. Today, it is called the  Apostle's  Creed in the Roman Catholic Church. [4,_pp._89-90].

The followers of Arius, called Arians, spread  through  the  east and north among the Germanic tribes. Most of the latter  invaders of the Roman Empire were Arians. After the death  of  Constantine the Roman Empire was divided into a Western Empire and an Eastern Empire. The emperor in the East was Constantine's son Constantius (337-361). Constantius  became  an  Arian  and  deposed  orthodox Christianity in the Eastern Empire during his  rule.  Valentinian became emperor (364-375) in the West where  orthodoxy  prevailed, and gave  the  East  to  his  brother  Valens  (364-378).  Valens continued to support the Arian faith in the East until his death. Gratian the son of Valentinian succeeded his father in the  West. Gratian was a devout Orthodox  and  appointed  a  Spanish  count, Theodosius, to rule the East (379-395). Theodosius was  a  strong orthodox and stamped out all heresies from  the  Empire  with  an edict in 380. Theodosius commanded all  Roman  subjects  in  both empires to become Orthodox Christians in  394,  thus  ending  the heresies and paganism. [4,_pp._90-91].

Gnosticism was another Christian sect, which existed in the Roman Empire up through Theodosius. The  Gnostics  lived  primarily  in North Africa. Little was known about  the  gnostics  until  1945, when several Gnostic books were discovered buried in a cave  near Naj Hammadi Egypt. Gnostics believed that knowledge (Gnosis)  was 
the way to salvation for man. They insisted that  ignorance,  not sin, is what involves a person in suffering. Gnostic did not have a  hierarchy  of  priests,  but  followed  strict  principles  of equality. Men and women participated equally. They believed  that most  people  live  in  oblivion  (in  contemporary   terms,   in unconsciousness). Remaining unaware of  their  own  selves,  they have "no root". To help  understand  the  Gnostic  view,  several quotes from gnostic texts are given: (1) To know oneself, at  the deepest level, is simultaneously to know God; this is the  secret of gnosis. (2) Let him who seeks continue seeking until he finds. When he finds, he will become troubled. When he becomes troubled, he will be astonished, and he will  rule  over  all  things.  (3) Rather the Kingdom is inside of you, and it is  outside  of  you. When you come to know yourselves, then you will realize that  you are the sons of the living Father.  But  if  you  will  not  know yourselves, then you dwell in poverty, and it is you who are that poverty.  (4)  Others...outside  our   number...call   themselves bishops and also deacons, as if they had received their authority from God. ...Those people are waterless canals. [8]

Several references had different views as to the  origin  of  The Gospel of John in the Bible: It is generally acknowledged that the author of the Gospel was  a Palestinian  Jew,  but  many  commentators  do  not  accept   his identification with John the apostle.  The  Gospel  of  John  was probably written sometime between AD 85 and 115. [12,tp.t865]

Jesus speaks so differently in John then he speaks in  the  other three  gospels  that  scholars  have  posited   some   extraneous influence in  John.  This  could  be  attributed  to  pre-Gnostic influences. [11,tp.t1082]

The Gospel of John is an example of a Gnostic text. The Gospel of  John names Mary Magdalene, not Peter, as the first witness of the resurrection.  Peter,  apparently   representing   the   orthodox position, looks to past events, suspicious of those who  see  the lord in  visions;  Mary,  representing  the  gnostic,  claims  to experience his continuing presence. [8] 

The Gospels of John differ very much from  the  other  three.  In John's Gospel no actual parable is present. The source from which he drew was a mystical gnostic school which believed parables  to be unnecessary. [9]

What happened to the Gnostics? It is believed that they lived  in monasteries  located  primarily  in  Egypt.  Theodosius  and  the emperors that followed him onsidered Gnostics  to  be  heretics. Active military  campaigns  were  launched  against  them,  which succeeded in destroying them. [8]

Also considered to be heretics, were the Pelagians and  Donatists Christian beliefs. The Pelagians believed that  human  nature  is not essentially evil and that men are able to seek good of  their own free will. The  Donatists  held  that  the  validity  of  the sacraments depended on the moral character of the priest. Both of these heretical groups were also attacked by the Romans. [4, p.93]


4.0: THE MIDDLE AGES (AD 500-1400)

The Western Roman Empire began to decline rapidly after  AD  400. Barbarian  tribes  attacked  the  Empire  on  all   borders   and eventually sacked Rome itself. The emperor moved his court to the impregnable city of Ravenna in 402, which was  sheltered  by  its impassable marshes. Thereafter, the Christian bishops became  the most powerful officials in the city, filling  the  power  vacuum. The Church assembled a clerical  hierarchy  which  was  patterned after the Roman imperial administration. This chain of  authority was deacons, priests, bishops, archbishops,  and  the  Bishop  of Rome (or Pope). After the first sack of Rome by the Visigoths  in 410,  Pope  Innocent  I  supervised  the  city's  reconstruction.  Latter, when Rome was sacked by the Huns in 451  and  Vandals  in 455, it was Pope Leo I who carried out negotiations on behalf  of the defenseless city. The last Western  Roman  emperor  abdicated the throne in 476, and this event marked  the  beginning  of  the Middle Ages. [4,_pp._91-96] [6,_pp._156-157]

4.1: MEDIEVAL EUROPE

After the fall of Rome, the Roman Catholic Church emerged as  the only  remaining  central  governing   power.   Its   hierarchical administration was established and all heretic  churches  in  the former Western Empire had been stamped out. Without an army,  the Church governed as a religious institution and provided no common defense for the  people.  Feudal  kingdoms  were  established  to protect each city-state and Europe plunged into the "Dark  Ages". During this time, civilization and  learning  disappeared.  Trade and travel decreased and there was little law and  order  outside each feudal kingdom. The Church was the  only  uniting  force  in Europe. 

Education was entirely for religious  purposes  during  the  Dark Ages. Entrance into heaven and not life on earth was the  primary focus of the people. There were  few  intellectual  advances  and much loss of worldly knowledge during this period. Philosophy was denounced   as   contradictory   to   the    church    teachings. [5,_pp._270-271]

Later,  a  Frankish  kingdom  ruled  by   Charlemagne   (742-814) conquered France, Germany, and northern Italy. The Pope  declared Charlemagne's Empire to be  the  New  Roman  Empire.  Charlemagne valued education. During his reign  he  established  schools  and encouraged educational activity. He  hired  an  english  educator named Alcuin (735-804) to improve education in the Empire. Alcuin defined a curriculum to include the seven liberal arts which were grammar,  rhetoric,  logic,  arithmetic,  geometry,  music,   and astronomy. However, the New Roman  Empire  was  short  lived  and returned to feudal anarchy within 30  years  after  Charlemagne's death. Europe was plunged into chaos again,  as  Viking,  Moslem, and Magyar invaders attacked  Europe  on  all  sides  during  the 800's.

The Crusades were  a  turning  point  for  medieval  Europe.  The Eastern Roman Empire, which is also called the Byzantine  Empire, continued as a powerful empire  throughout  Europe's  Dark  Ages. After the year 1000, the Byzantine Empire and the Holy Land  were under attack by Turkish Moslems. The object of the  Crusades  was to capture the Holy Land from the Turks and rescue the  Byzantine Empire. The Pope called for a huge Christian army  and  thousands volunteered. Four  major  Crusades  and  several  minor  Crusades occurred over the next 300  years.  The  Crusades  increased  the Pope's power and helped to unite Feudal Europe.  Increased  trade and experiences of the crusaders helped to bring  Europe  out  of the Dark Ages. 

Exposure to new ideas brought about new interest in education and the Age of Revival of  Learning  (1000-1300)  began.  Of  special interest were the rediscovery of  the  writings  of  the  ancient philosophers, especially Aristotle.  Medieval  educators,  called scholastics,  reconciled  religion  and   philosophy.   Cathedral schools were established, which led to the  creation  of  several universities. These included: the University of  Bologna  (1158), the University of Paris (1180), and Oxford University  (1214).  A famous scholastic named Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) taught at  the University of Paris. He was a Dominican theologian who harmonized philosophy with the  doctrines  of  the  church. Thomas  Aquinas formalized scholasticism, as the logical and philosophical  study of the beliefs of the church. His educational  and  philosophical views are known as Thomism. 

4.2: THE BYZANTINE EMPIRE

The Eastern Roman Empire, which  is  also  called  the  Byzantine Empire, lasted for another thousand years after the fall of Rome. Its capital was Constantinople, which is now called Istanbul. The first emperor of  the  Byzantine  Empire  was  Constantine's  son Constantius (337-361). Later Theodosius became emperor  (379-395) and made orthodox Christianity the official religion. Much later, Justinian became emperor (527- 563)  and  during  his  reign  the Byzantine Empire saw  its  greatest  growth.  Justinian's  armies conquered North Africa, Italy,  Greece,  Palestine,  and  Turkey. Throughout its history the Byzantine Empire  oscillated  in  size many times. The Empire finally fell in  1453,  when  the  Ottoman Turks took Constantinople and renamed it Istanbul. 

The language of the Byzantine Empire was Greek. Christianity  was the official religion and became a strong force in Byzantine Art. Icons were considered sacred art and in fact  were  worshiped  by many Byzantians. This practice caused the Iconoclast (800)  which marked the end of the worship of icons.  The Byzantine Government was very strong. Manufacturing and trade were strictly  regulated by the state, and taxation was heavy.  The  government  also  had much influence over the Church, which eventually caused a quarrel with the west over the Pope's authority. This led to a break with the Roman Catholic Church in 1054. This  break  fueled  religious hatred in western Europe which caused western forces  to  capture Constantinople in 1204 during the fourth  Crusade.  In  1261  the Byzantians  recaptured  their  city.  The  Byzantians  were  very religious  Christians  despite  their  break  with  Rome.   Their religious traditions can be  found  in  the  present  day  Greek, Bulgarian, and  Russian  Orthodox  Churches. [4,_pp._111-121]_[6,_pp._238-246]

As you have probably guessed, I can not  believe  with  certainty that  Jesus was the Messiah mentioned in the old  testament.  The events which were suppose to take place in  the  post-messiahonic age (mentioned in the old testament) have not occurred. John does not seem to resonate as truth to me and without  it  the  beliefs described in the Nicene creed are questionable. In many  ways,  I see Jesus to the Jewish faith was similar to Siddhartha  (Buddha) for the Hindu faith. Both were  discouraged  by  the  ritualistic religious practices of  the  day  and  questioned  the  religious authorities. Both wanted to guide the people to a direct path  to God and enlightenment. Both were extremely spiritually  advanced. And so I am open to do God's will and establish a listening  time for him. I am not open to feeding my ego  or  other  peoples,  or telling others how it really is because no one really knows until they die and then all things will be made clear. 

As for my personal philosophy at this time, I  have  appended  my answer to the test question from my education class "What is your philosophy of education?". I though you might find it interesting reading. Of course this too  will  evolve  and  change  as  truth becomes clear to me.

SECTION C: PERSONAL PHILOSOPHY

The philosophy of education which  closely  matches  my  personal views on education is that of Realism. The primary corollaries of the Realism philosophy are as follows: Reality exists independent of man's knowledge of it; The basis for understanding reality  is found in the world of objects and in  the  perceptions  of  these objects; Human beings know these objects through their senses and reason. Conceptualization occurs when the mind,  through  reason, identifies objects as belonging to a certain class and associates properties with that object.  To  aid  in  the  conceptualization process  with  regard  to   learning,   realists   believe   that educational  material  should  be   classified   into   different disciplines. The teachers primary responsibility is to teach some skill, such as reading, writing, or computation, or some body  of disciplined knowledge, such as history, mathematics, or  science. A teaching method should  be  based  on  sensory  experience  and interaction.

The philosopher who best  represents  my  educational  philosophy beliefs is John Locke. He proposed that the human mind  at  birth can be described as a blank slate, empty of ideas and  knowledge. Knowledge is acquired directly from the senses and we  develop  a perception of reality through reason. Locke believed learning was an active process that used the senses to investigate and acquire data about the world. Learning should be a gradual process  at  a comfortable pace for the student. The best ways to  learn  is by interacting with the environment and learning by doing.

The question "What is man (woman)?" is  a  philosophical  problem which I have been wrestling with since age  eight.  I  discovered around this age that: Santa Claus is not real, God  seldom  gives people what they ask for,  "good"  intentions  can  cause  "evil" events, God doesn't directly make babies and drop them on "happy" parents door steps, and people really do die. I remember watching Vietnam casualty reports on TV, and wondering how could there  be any "Enemies" left, and why do wars make it  socially  acceptable and exciting to kill other people? What should I do if my country tells me to go kill someone whom I don't even  know?  I  remember bringing the question up to Sister Elizabeth at the Sunday School 
class. Is killing a soldier in a war also a mortal sin?  Why  are all communists evil? Is everything our soldiers do good? How much sin makes a person evil? Sister  Elizabeth's  answers  never  did make sense  and  neither  did  my  parents.  Then  came  the  big question: So what is the purpose of this life anyway? I  couldn't believe the answers my religion gave me. To this day I  have  not heard an answer that resonates as  truth  to  me,  so  my  search continues.  I  think  everyone  must  answer  this  question  for 
themselves. 

It is my philosophical belief that man (woman too) is a  thinking entity that exists in a physical body. Man's  connection  to  the physical world is through the physical body via the five  senses. Man owes his existence on  the  physical  plane  to  the  natural physical world,  and  to  ignore  this  relationship  will  cause degradation of the physical  body.  Man  is  constrained  on  the physical plane by space (the  three  dimensions)  and  time.  All knowledge of the physical plane must be received through the five senses, and processed by the mind into a perception.

I believe that man does have a spiritual part to him which I will call  the  light  body  (Soul  would  have  too  many   religious connotations associated  with  it).  The  light  body  shines  in infancy:  pumping  life  energy  into  the  infant,   associating physical matter  into  the  body  as  the  plan  prescribes,  and providing all the intuitive knowledge required to survive. As the infant grows the  light  body  provides  less  direction  as  the physical body  and  mind  become  more  rooted  in  the  physical environment. By the end of the child's sensorimotor  period  (age two) the effect of the light body on consciousness is negligible, and the light body resides in the sub-conscious  primarily  as  a passive observer. The light body is that spark  of  divinity  and immortality in each person, and upon death it is  liberated  from the physical plane. After death, the light body is  free  of  the space and time continuum and joins with the creator who assigns a new purpose. World religions provide elaborate theories about  an afterlife,  from   resurrection   of   the   physical   body   to reincarnation in the physical  plane.  I  have  little  faith  in religious doctrines, because if our creator  wanted  us  to  know what our purpose and afterlife is like, the  creator  would  have made the information available  to  us.  I  am  not  trusting  of religions because they have historically been used to control the masses through feelings of guilt,  shame,  and  altered  purpose. Generally, religions describe the spiritual world  with  physical plane attributes and prescribe human emotions to the  creator.  I believe that the spiritual world and creator are not  describable in terms of physical experience. Knowledge  of  the  non-physical can not be derived from the physical plane.

Therefore, man consists of two entities: the physical body  which is firmly rooted in the physical plane of mortal  existence,  and the light body which which exists both passively in the  physical plane and actively in the immortal spiritual plane. Consciousness is firmly rooted in the physical plane through the ego.  The  ego is that part of consciousness which believes we are in control of the world and sets goals for ourselves to prove we are something. The ego craves power to control, defends itself by worrying about security, and wants to feel alive through constant sensations. In today's society, the consciousness of most people resides totally in the ego. I believe,  only  by  quieting  down  all  the  egoic chatter (through some practice like meditation) can a person hear the inner promptings of the light body from the spiritual  world. No one can hear the spiritual teacher when the stereo of life  is turned up full blast. It  is  through  the  light  body  that  we receive a higher level of direction and acknowledgement of  truth from our creator. 

In my opinion, the aim of education is to teach the physical body about the physical world via the five senses. Education should be compulsory for all children between the ages of five and sixteen. The two major purposes of education are to teach all children the skills they need to be competent members of  society,  and  allow them to develop their own intellectual interests. Education  must support the society in which it exists. In the United  States  it must support the Constitution,  especially  the  first  amendment rights. The concepts of freedom of religion and  speech  must  be followed in  public  schools.  Therefore,  no  specific  religion should be taught unless it is an optional class and taught from a philosophical or historical perspective. Expression of  different viewpoints should be encouraged.

Elementary school should begin at age five and  continue  to  age eleven, because children's minds are  sufficiently  developed  to think symbolically and acquire social skills.  Elementary  school should  be  a  nurturing,  pleasant,  and   social   environment. Instruction in reading, writing, and arithmetic should be a slow, gradual, and cumulative process. The instruction should match the learning pace of the student, and  therefore  small  classes  are desired. The elementary teacher should  be  very  supportive  and encouraging so that students develop an enjoyment of learning. 

Secondary school should be mandatory from ages twelve to  sixteen and available until age twenty one to include community colleges. The primary emphasis of the secondary school education should  be to develop intellectual interests by teaching  a  wide  range  of subjects.  Subject-matter  should  be  organized  into   specific disciplines  so  that  it  is  easier   for   the   students   to conceptualize the material and  identify  where  their  interests lie. Secondary school courses should include as core classes  the major disciplines history, language, science, math,  ethics,  and geography; Vocational and life  skills  classes  should  also  be available to the student. Secondary school  education  should  be rigorous in that  the  teacher's  primary  responsibility  is  to present the material accurately and effectively.  The  school  is responsible for providing the young with the education they  need to live productive and happy lives in this  society.  The  school should be considered a serious center of learning and  not  as  a juvenile day care center.

Knowledge of the physical world is not latent in the  human  mind but must be taught through the five senses.  The  teacher  should have an  authoritative  role  in  the  classroom,  and  encourage enthusiasm for the material. No specific teaching method is  best for all subjects; therefore, it is up to the  teacher  to  choose the best method from his experience. It is best  to  use  methods which allow students to interact with the subject matter, such as discussion,  problem  solving,  demonstration,  and  experiments. 
Information should be passed  to  the  student  so  that  he  may perceive the material  in  an  organized  manner.  Truth  in  the physical world is a theory which continues to  be  verifiable  in the physical plane. 

In my opinion, acquiring knowledge of the spiritual plane  is  an individual pursuit and  spiritual  truth  is  not  universal.  To demonstrate this  consider  how  many  different  religions  have evolved on the planet, with each saying they are  the  only  way. Spiritual concepts resonate as truth differently in each  of  us. Most people believe that spiritual  truth  is  universal  because that is the way it is in the physical plane. I  disagree  because we are talking about the spiritual plane  for  which  our  senses have no access. Each  person  has  a  different  purpose  in  the physical world and the creator  will  prompt  them  in  different ways. Acquiring spiritual knowledge is an important pursuit,  but the spirit moves people differently and  at  different  times  in their lives. Study of spiritual knowledge does not belong in  the public school  system,  but  should  be  made  available  through churches and special interest groups.

Four  contemporary  philosophy  of  education  views   are:   (1) perennialism,  (2)  progressivism,  (3)  essentialism,  and   (4) behaviorism. Of these four  views,  my  philosophy  of  education views  are  most  compatible  with   essentialism.   Essentialism stresses educating the  person  to  be  a  useful  and  competent citizen. The back-to-basics concepts and essentialist  curriculum are very close to what I  have  discussed.  School  should  be  a serious center of learning. The only area with which I differ  is that I believe the teachers  role  should  be  authoritative  and enthusiastic, as opposed to authoritarian. 

Of the four views stated earlier my philosophy  of  education  is least compatible with perennialism. I do not believe teaching the great books of western civilization should be a primary emphasis, especially in a multicultural society such as ours. I believe the time could be better spent on vocational or  college  preparatory classes. I also believe that the aim of education is to  do  more than simply improve man by  developing  the  rational  person.  I disagree with the hard work and authoritarian teaching style  and the inability of students to study in their areas of interest  or vocation. It also seems to breed elitism which I disapprove of on philosophical grounds. Elitism inflates the ego which  makes  the search  for spiritual      truth  more  difficult. 

So as you can see religion is a complicated and involved question for me. I  can  not  take  things  on  faith,  as  I  see  little difference between the faith  of  most  people  and  gullibility. Instead my faith is that what ever is suppose  to  happen  to  me will happen as long as I have an open  mind  to God's  will.  Worry, anxiety, and emotion are useless as we aren't in control  anyway. Instead each  experience  should  be  considered  as  a  learning experience. Some are painful because that is the way we  perceive them, but in reality they are part of the  plan  for  us  and  we should learn the most from these experiences about our  self  and our relationship to the universe. This is what the  teachings  of Jesus and Buddha say to me.9